README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://ci.centos.org/view/Devtools/job/devtools-fabric8-analytics-worker-f8a-build-master/badge/icon)](https://ci.centos.org/view/Devtools/job/devtools-fabric8-analytics-worker-f8a-build-master/)

Fabric8-Analytics Core library and services
-------------------------------------------

This library provides basic infrastructure for development of services and concrete implemementation of services. 

The following libraries are provided:

* Database abstraction
* Task Queue Worker/Node abstraction
* Utilities
  * File tree walker with filtering
  * One-to-many dictionary
  * Shell command wrapper with timeout support

See [workers/README.md](./f8a_worker/workers/README.md) for a listing of the concrete services.

## Contributing

See our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/fabric8-analytics/common/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more info.

## Running worker environment with docker-compose

There are two sets of workers - API and ingestion. API workers serve requests that are passed from API endpoint. Ingestion workers are used for background data ingestion. To run them use:
```shell
$ docker-compose up worker-api worker-ingestion
```

# Running the tests locally

## Docker based API testing

Run the tests in a container using the helper
script:
```shell
$ ./runtests.sh
```

(The above command assumes you have passwordless docker invocation configured -
if you don't, then `sudo` will be necessary to enable docker invocation).


If you're changing dependencies rather than just editing source code locally,
you will need images to be rebuilt when invoking `runtest.sh`. You
can set environment variable `REBUILD=1` to request image rebuilding.

If the offline virtualenv based tests have been run, then this may complain
about mismatched locations in compiled files. Those can be deleted using:
```shell
$ find -name *.pyc -delete
```

NOTE: Running the container based tests is likely to cause any already
running local Fabric8-Analytics instance launched via Docker Compose to fall over due to
changes in the SELinux labels on mounted volumes, and may also cause
spurious test failures.


## Virtualenv based offline testing

Test cases marked with `pytest.mark.offline` may be executed without having a
Docker daemon running locally.

To configure a virtualenv (called `f8a-worker` in the example) to run these
tests:
```shell
(f8a-worker) $ python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
(f8a-worker) $ python -m pip install -r tests/requirements.txt
```

The marked offline tests can then be run as:
```shell
(f8a-worker) $ py.test -m offline tests/
```

If the Docker container based tests have been run, then this may complain
about mismatched locations in compiled files. Those can be deleted using:
```shell
(f8a-worker) $ sudo find -name *.pyc -delete
```

## Some tips for running tests locally

**Reusing an existing virtualenv for multiple test runs**

When a virtualenv already is setup you can run tests like so:

```
source /path/to/python_env/bin/activate
NOVENV=1 ./runtest.sh
```

This will not create a virtualenv every time.


**Forcing image builds while testing**

When some changes are made to code that will change the docker image, it is good to rebuild images locally for testing. This can re-build can be forced like so: 

```
REBUILD=1 ./runtest.sh 
```

#### Coding standards

- You can use scripts `run-linter.sh` and `check-docstyle.sh` to check if the code follows [PEP 8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) and [PEP 257](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/) coding standards. These scripts can be run w/o any arguments:

```
./run-linter.sh
./check-docstyle.sh
```

The first script checks the indentation, line lengths, variable names, white space around operators etc. The second
script checks all documentation strings - its presence and format. Please fix any warnings and errors reported by these
scripts.

#### Code complexity measurement

The scripts `measure-cyclomatic-complexity.sh` and `measure-maintainability-index.sh` are used to measure code complexity. These scripts can be run w/o any arguments:

```
./measure-cyclomatic-complexity.sh
./measure-maintainability-index.sh
```

The first script measures cyclomatic complexity of all Python sources found in the repository. Please see [this table](https://radon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/commandline.html#the-cc-command) for further explanation how to comprehend the results.

The second script measures maintainability index of all Python sources found in the repository. Please see [the following link](https://radon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/commandline.html#the-mi-command) with explanation of this measurement.

#### Check for scripts written in BASH

The script named `check-bashscripts.sh` can be used to check all BASH scripts (in fact: all files with the `.sh` extension) for various possible issues, incompatibilies, and caveats. This script can be run w/o any arguments:

```
./check-bashscripts.sh
```

Please see [the following link](https://github.com/koalaman/shellcheck) for further explanation, how the ShellCheck works and which issues can be detected.

Commit message:

Updated README.md: info about scripts to detect dead code and common issues

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://ci.centos.org/view/Devtools/job/devtools-fabric8-analytics-worker-f8a-build-master/badge/icon)](https://ci.centos.org/view/Devtools/job/devtools-fabric8-analytics-worker-f8a-build-master/)

Fabric8-Analytics Core library and services
-------------------------------------------

This library provides basic infrastructure for development of services and concrete implemementation of services. 

The following libraries are provided:

* Database abstraction
* Task Queue Worker/Node abstraction
* Utilities
  * File tree walker with filtering
  * One-to-many dictionary
  * Shell command wrapper with timeout support

See [workers/README.md](./f8a_worker/workers/README.md) for a listing of the concrete services.

## Contributing

See our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/fabric8-analytics/common/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more info.

## Running worker environment with docker-compose

There are two sets of workers - API and ingestion. API workers serve requests that are passed from API endpoint. Ingestion workers are used for background data ingestion. To run them use:
```shell
$ docker-compose up worker-api worker-ingestion
```

# Running the tests locally

## Docker based API testing

Run the tests in a container using the helper
script:
```shell
$ ./runtests.sh
```

(The above command assumes you have passwordless docker invocation configured -
if you don't, then `sudo` will be necessary to enable docker invocation).


If you're changing dependencies rather than just editing source code locally,
you will need images to be rebuilt when invoking `runtest.sh`. You
can set environment variable `REBUILD=1` to request image rebuilding.

If the offline virtualenv based tests have been run, then this may complain
about mismatched locations in compiled files. Those can be deleted using:
```shell
$ find -name *.pyc -delete
```

NOTE: Running the container based tests is likely to cause any already
running local Fabric8-Analytics instance launched via Docker Compose to fall over due to
changes in the SELinux labels on mounted volumes, and may also cause
spurious test failures.


## Virtualenv based offline testing

Test cases marked with `pytest.mark.offline` may be executed without having a
Docker daemon running locally.

To configure a virtualenv (called `f8a-worker` in the example) to run these
tests:
```shell
(f8a-worker) $ python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
(f8a-worker) $ python -m pip install -r tests/requirements.txt
```

The marked offline tests can then be run as:
```shell
(f8a-worker) $ py.test -m offline tests/
```

If the Docker container based tests have been run, then this may complain
about mismatched locations in compiled files. Those can be deleted using:
```shell
(f8a-worker) $ sudo find -name *.pyc -delete
```

## Some tips for running tests locally

**Reusing an existing virtualenv for multiple test runs**

When a virtualenv already is setup you can run tests like so:

```
source /path/to/python_env/bin/activate
NOVENV=1 ./runtest.sh
```

This will not create a virtualenv every time.


**Forcing image builds while testing**

When some changes are made to code that will change the docker image, it is good to rebuild images locally for testing. This can re-build can be forced like so: 

```
REBUILD=1 ./runtest.sh 
```

#### Coding standards

- You can use scripts `run-linter.sh` and `check-docstyle.sh` to check if the code follows [PEP 8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) and [PEP 257](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/) coding standards. These scripts can be run w/o any arguments:

```
./run-linter.sh
./check-docstyle.sh
```

The first script checks the indentation, line lengths, variable names, white space around operators etc. The second
script checks all documentation strings - its presence and format. Please fix any warnings and errors reported by these
scripts.

#### Code complexity measurement

The scripts `measure-cyclomatic-complexity.sh` and `measure-maintainability-index.sh` are used to measure code complexity. These scripts can be run w/o any arguments:

```
./measure-cyclomatic-complexity.sh
./measure-maintainability-index.sh
```

The first script measures cyclomatic complexity of all Python sources found in the repository. Please see [this table](https://radon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/commandline.html#the-cc-command) for further explanation how to comprehend the results.

The second script measures maintainability index of all Python sources found in the repository. Please see [the following link](https://radon.readthedocs.io/en/latest/commandline.html#the-mi-command) with explanation of this measurement.

#### Dead code detection

The script `detect-dead-code.sh` can be used to detect dead code in the repository. This script can be run w/o any arguments:

```
./detect-dead-code.sh
```

Please note that due to Python's dynamic nature, static code analyzers are likely to miss some dead code. Also, code that is only called implicitly may be reported as unused.

Because of this potential problems, only code detected with more than 90% of confidence is reported.

#### Common issues detection

The script `detect-common-errors.sh` can be used to detect common errors in the repository. This script can be run w/o any arguments:

```
./detect-common-errors.sh
```

Please note that only semantical problems are reported.

#### Check for scripts written in BASH

The script named `check-bashscripts.sh` can be used to check all BASH scripts (in fact: all files with the `.sh` extension) for various possible issues, incompatibilies, and caveats. This script can be run w/o any arguments:

```
./check-bashscripts.sh
```

Please see [the following link](https://github.com/koalaman/shellcheck) for further explanation, how the ShellCheck works and which issues can be detected.
